A team sport is a type of sport where the fundamental nature of the game or sport necessitates the participation of multiple individuals working together as a team, and it is inherently impossible or highly impractical to execute the sport as a single-player endeavour. In team sports, the cooperative effort of team members is essential for the sport to function and achieve its objectives. The objective often involves teammates facilitating the movement of a ball or similar object in accordance with a set of rules, in order to score points. Examples are basketball, volleyball, rugby, water polo, handball, lacrosse, cricket, baseball, and the various forms of football, and hockey. These sports emphasize teamwork, strategy, and coordination among team members, while competing against opposing teams, to achieve a common goal.[2] Team sports do not include individual or individual-to-team events within a sport.[3]
The meaning of a "team sport" has been disputed in recent years. Some types of sports have different objectives or rules than "traditional" team sports. These types of team sports do not involve teammates facilitating the movement of a ball or similar object in accordance with a set of rules, in order to score points. Overall, the division into team sports and individual sports is not always unproblematic, since there are different combinations in the individual sports. 
This includes sports that can only be practiced as a team sport. The number of team members is fixed for the team. In order to compete successfully in championships and tournaments, teams need a roster that is significantly larger than the number of players starting the game. Players may be substituted from a squad in competition matches to replace exhausted or injured players or to make tactical changes. Examples are basketball, volleyball, rugby, water polo, handball, lacrosse, cricket, baseball, and the various forms of football, and hockey.
Teams of two people are sports, such as dancesport or beach volleyball. No substitute players are used here. The two partners are absolutely dependent on each other. The absence of a person here means the loss of competitiveness.[4][5][6] 