Acrobatics (from Ancient Greek ἀκροβατέω (akrobatéō) 'walk on tiptoe, strut')[1] is the performance of human feats of balance, agility, and motor coordination. Acrobatic skills are used in performing arts, sporting events, and martial arts. Extensive use of acrobatic skills are most often performed in acro dance, circus, gymnastics, and freerunning and to a lesser extent in other athletic activities including ballet, slacklining and diving. Although acrobatics is most commonly associated with human body performance, the term is used to describe other types of performance, such as aerobatics.
History
A female acrobat depicted on an Ancient Greek hydria, c. 340–330 BC.
Female acrobat shooting an arrow with a bow in her feet; Gnathia style pelikai pottery; 4th century BC
Acrobatic performance in India c. 1863

Acrobatic traditions are found in many cultures, and there is evidence that the earliest such traditions occurred thousands of years ago. For example, Minoan art from c. 2000 BC contains depictions of acrobatic feats on the backs of bulls. Ancient Greeks practiced acrobatics,[2] and the noble court displays of the European Middle Ages would often include acrobatic performances that included juggling[citation needed].

In China, acrobatics have been a part of the culture since the Tang dynasty (203 BC). Acrobatics were part of village harvest festivals.[3] During the Tang dynasty, acrobatics saw much the same sort of development as European acrobatics saw during the Middle Ages, with court displays during the 7th through 10th century dominating the practice.[4] Acrobatics continues to be an important part of modern Chinese variety art.

Though the term initially applied to tightrope walking,[citation needed] in the 19th century, a form of performance art including circus acts began to use the term as well. In the late 19th century, tumbling and other acrobatic and gymnastic activities became competitive sport in Europe.

Acrobatics has often served as a subject for fine art. Examples of this are paintings such as Acrobats at the Cirque Fernando (Francisca and Angelina Wartenberg) by Impressionist Pierre-Auguste Renoir, which depicts two German acrobatic sisters, Pablo Picasso's 1905 Acrobat and Young Harlequin, and Acrobats in a Paris suburb by Viktor Vasnetsov.[